# 🎬 Advanced SQL queries analysis on a movie database

This project demonstrates advanced SQL queries on a multi-table movie database schema. I used advanced techniques like CTEs, Window Functions, and Joins.

## 📊 Database Schema
The analysis is based on a relational database with the following tables:
- movies
- financials
- actors
- movie_actor
- languages

## Method Used
- Complex SQL Joins & CTEs
- Window Functions (RANK, ROW_NUMBER, NTILE)
- Advanced Aggregation & Filtering
- Data Wrangling & Unit Conversion

## Questions
Here are the challenges I tackled 

**Question: 1.** 
Identify the top 3 studios which have the highest average Return on Investment (ROI) 
for their movies. Only consider studios with more than 1 movies.

[**Result**](https://github.com/roy-tanmay/Movie-Database-SQL-Analysis/blob/main/ans%201.png)

**Question: 2.**
Find total number of movies of an actor and the number of movies in each industry.
(e.g., Bollywood and Hollywood), also Show the actor's name. (consider total movie >= 2) 

[**Result**](https://github.com/roy-tanmay/Movie-Database-SQL-Analysis/blob/main/ans%202.png)

**Question: 3.** 
Categorize movies into four buckets based on their budget ('Low', 'Medium', 'High', 'Very High') 
Then, for each bucket, calculate the average ROI. Does spending more money guarantee a better return?

[**Result**](https://github.com/roy-tanmay/Movie-Database-SQL-Analysis/blob/main/ans%203.png)

**Question: 4.** 
For each language, show the movie with the highest IMDb rating using a window function

[**Result**](https://github.com/roy-tanmay/Movie-Database-SQL-Analysis/blob/main/ans%204.png)

**Question: 5.** 
For each year and each industry, show the following:
 * The highest grossing movie of the year.
 * The total revenue generated by the industry that year.
 * The industry's revenue as a percentage of the total revenue for that year across all industries.

[**Result**](https://github.com/roy-tanmay/Movie-Database-SQL-Analysis/blob/main/ans%205.png)












